you're live with BBC News the World
Health Organization is warning that more
people could die in Gaza because of
untreated diseases than due to air
strikes if the health system isn't
restored there more than a million
people are Sheltering in overcrowded
United Nations facilities as cases of
diarrhea and respiratory infections are
widespread patients with chronic
illnesses like cancer are also not
getting any treatment well to discuss
this further I'm joined Now by mikee
noise from action a thank you very much
for joining us here on the BBC you've
been in touch with your teams in Gaza if
we can begin by finding out a little bit
more about what they're telling you
about the situation on the
ground thank you reie obviously a few
days now into a course there's a there's
a yeah there's a sense of improvement
just in terms of the the access for our
for our colleagues and for humanitarian
workers and and crucially for supplies
coming in through the Raffa Crossing
although they're still far below meeting
the levels of need that said you know
with the needs as high as they are and
particularly with the situation that
very little of that Aid is reaching the
north we continue to hear from our
colleagues about their concern for what
can be achieved and and for the needs
we're continuing to hear from our
colleagues that the hospitals that we
work with are still lacking fuel meaning
they can't run generators which is
impacting on their their basic abil to
Pro provide you know basic Medical
Services we're continuing to hear
concerns about the state of the water
system and the ab again the lack of fuel
to provide to to get pumps running and
that also many people of course around
Gaza particularly those who fled from
the north to the South are exposed and
living in very poor conditions and
lacking basic shelter I heard from a
colleague today talking about uh uh
seven families sharing one blanket for
the the for the night you know the the
levels of of need uh the the lack of
humanitarian Aid is is still quite
crucial no matter how hard we and one of
the uh concerns is Aid getting into the
north we've been talking to other Aid
agencies in the last few days who say
that has been one of the biggest
challenges and one of the greatest needs
in indeed the hospitals we work with up
in in the north I I didn't hear from
them today but as of yesterday they not
received any any fuel at all and and so
yeah yeah it for for them yes the
bombardment is has has stopped but the
pores has really not resulted in in much
Aid getting through to them them mle up
in the north and of course as well as
the hospitals there are still you a
large number of people living in the
north we're doing what we can in terms
of getting people whether it's in the
North or the South uh cash uh through
through our action A Partners on the
ground but obviously cash can only go so
far when there's not much to buy in the
shop and just very briefly Mike uh the
who talking about the danger of
infectious diseases because sanitation
conditions are obviously very poor as
well now yeah indeed this is this is
what we are hearing again from our
colleagues uh in the camps the number of
people using you know one or or two
latrines you know I think I heard
something like 700 people using two
latrines recently in one of the shelters
down the South so the risk of waterborne
or diarrhea diseases is incredibly high
and as I say sort of aggravated by the
fact that people are living in very poor
conditions in terms of shelter and the
cold I this is you know the challenge
for us very much at the moment is the
pause is helping it is getting things
through but when the pause is extended
on a day-by-day basis it's very hard for
us to scale up and plan properly okay
Mike noise from action a thank you very
much for bringing us up to date on the
situation on the ground in Gaza this is
the context stay with us